# 21/22 April 2020 FAIR4S Call

_[Your time conversion](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=CaseStatementFAIR4RS&iso=20200422T06&p1=47&ah=1)_


- **Chair**: Dan Katz
- **Notes**: Paula Andrea Martinez and Fotis Psomopoulos
- **Attendees**: Neil Chue Hong, Mateusz Kuzak, Paula Andrea Martinez, Fotis Psomopoulos, Leyla Garcia, Michelle Barker, Morane Gruenpeter, Dan Katz
- **Apologies**: --

## Agenda and Notes

1. **Review of RDA case statement**
  - **Section 1**: WG Charter
    - What are the aims/scope of the group?
    - Are metrics for FAIR Software in scope, or is this a separate WG?

    _Leyla_: use Research Objects, for anything that is not data.

    _Dan_: Research objects covers data too.

    _Morane_: Research software as an outcome.

    _Neil_: Outcomes, Outputs (half in between) and Objects (both data and Software). Outcome falls under the “software being the dissemination part of research”, Object falls under the “software being the target of research), output is half-way.

    _Leyla_: Software as a mean

    _Dan_: outcome is the result not the process

    _Neil_: suggests to use Research object,

    _Dan_: Suggest we accept the comments and then Neil will help rewording

    _Michelle_: This is a living document and thanks for the comments.

      - Question about what the group will deliver

    _Neil_: in terms of scope FAIR metrics for software is out of the scope

    _Dan_: it is of interest, but does not fit in the time of the 18 months.

    _Fotis_: Suggest to add that this is out of scope

    _Leyla_: I know that Salva has worked a bit on metrics and will be keen to add

    _Morane_: we should first define what we want to measure

    _Neil_: a new group might emerge for metrics. Discuss more the deliverables

    _Morane_: It is usual on RDA groups to have deliverables at the beginning used as an invitation

  **ACTION Michelle**: I will update the WG Chapter deliverables to align with the work plan

  - **Section 2**: Value Proposition
    - What are we proposing to accomplish?

    All accepted

  - **Section 3**: Engagement with existing work
    - Do we need to add anything else?

    We added the metadata schemas

    _All_: how is ELIXIR addressed?

    _Paula_: ELIXIR with capitals

    _Neil_: has checked

    _Paula_: side question: Neil can you do a full review of the document at the end?

  **ACTION Neil**: yes, I can review the document at the end

  - **Section 4**: Work plan
    - Agree on deliverables and timelines

    _Morane_: align deliverables with the WG charter

    _Dan_: **ACTION Michele and Paula** to address that

    _Michelle_: let’s discuss the timeline

    _Morane_: 6+ and +18 for RDA. We can have a different road map separated from the Case statement

    _Paula_: can you clarify the first milestone.

    _Michelle_: do a review

    _Neil_: where are the places that are not fully in agreement

    _Leyla_: there is new literature

    _Morane_: to add Software Heritage IDs and FAIRsFAIR (September)

    Most it accepted by the group

  - **Section 5**: adoption plan
    - Any suggested additions or changes?

    _Neil_: this section needs a bit more work

    _Morane_: maybe we can use the wording from the groups in the engagement point.

    _Neil_: Being a bit more detail on how we work with those groups, and what success looks like.  

    _Leyla_: how do we cross-collaborate with other groups.

    **ACTION**: look how to engage with the groups other than at RDAs

    _Leyla_: gave some specific examples

    _Neil_: have suggestions on how to engage, like endorse, or promote the outputs in their own groups.

    _Fotis_: we don’t have a commitment from the other groups to adopt any outcomes that we would produce.

    _Neil_: "All members will also systematically promote the outcomes to their specific communities" - Survey

    **ACTION Michelle**: will rephrase

  - **Section 6**: Initial membership
    - Choose 2-4 co-chairs from the steering committee
    - **RDA chairs**: Leyla, Neil, Michelle, Dan, Paula

    _Neil_: run the document with the other SSC-IG chairs

    ~**ACTION Morane**: will add to & fix the references~

    **Deadlines**: check comments and actions until 28th of April and then review until 30th of April and final editions to the 5th. SSC-iG chair May 5th - 12 May to review.

2. What else do we need to set up?

  Now have Mailchimp email list, ReSA google drive, FORCE11 and/or ReSA GitHub.

  We will have the github discussion for later. And not for the Case statement.
3. Any other business

## Next Meeting

**Next meeting** ~ 3 weeks

**ACTION Michelle**: will send a doodle poll

_All_: everyone seems to agree on this time

## List of actions

_(as copied from the minutes above)_

1. **ACTION Michelle**: Update the WG Chapter deliverables to align with the work plan
2. **ACTION Neil**:Review the document at the end
3. **ACTION Michele and Paula**: align deliverables with the WG charter
4. **ACTION**: look how to engage with the groups other than at RDAs
5. **ACTION Michelle**: Rephrase Charter for commitment from the other groups to adopt any outcomes that we would produce (_"All members will also systematically promote the outcomes to their specific communities"_)
6. **ACTION Morane**: Add to & fix the references
