# 11/12 May 2020 FAIR4S Call

_[Your time conversion](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=CaseStatementFAIR4RS&iso=20200512T06&p1=47&ah=1)_


- **Chair**: Michelle Barker
- **Notes**: Dan Katz
- **Attendees**: Mateusz Kuzak, Morane Gruenpeter, Neil Chue Hong, Fotis Psomopoulos, Leyla Garcia, Jen Harrow, Michelle Barker,  Paula Andrea Martinez, Dan Katz
- **Apologies**: --

## Agenda

1. Update on
  - [RDA case statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i2n99MPp02icMBIeaalRGMRKqawl09LQGJcCvTmVeRI/edit?ts=5e9689af#)
  - [tweet for community review](https://twitter.com/orchid00/status/1259763913521901569?s=20)
  - [Published Case Statement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg/case-statement/fair-research-software-wg-case-statement)
2. Beginning the work plan
  - Milestone 1:
    - Identify issues in definition of FAIR for research software, based on analysis of existing definitions and frameworks. Include definition of research software to delineate the scope that FAIR will be applied to. The draft would identify commonalities and differences, and thus key questions for the community to engage around. Initiate consultation with community (including identification of who is in this community)
  - Suggested subgroups to address milestone 1:
    1. Review of the original FAIR
    2. Review of the Towards FAIR principles for research software paper
    3. Definition of research software
    4. Are there people who tried to put this into practice?
3. Engagement with other RDA groups we highlighted in the case statement
4. Updating the community ([50 group members](https://www.rd-alliance.org/node/69317/members))
  - Case Statement Submission
  - Milestone 1 in progress
5. Committee structure - rolling chair for monthly meetings? (Order would be: Michelle Barker, Neil Chue Hong, Leyla Garcia, Morane Gruenpeter, Jen Harrow, Dan Katz, Mateusz Kuzak, Paula Andrea Martinez, Fotis Psomopoulos)
6. Any other business

## Action items

_from previous meeting_

1. Michelle: update the WG Chapter deliverables to align with the work plan - _**DONE**_
2. Neil can review the document at the end - _**DONE**_
3. Michele and Paula to align deliverables with the WG charter - _**DONE**_
4. Look how to engage with the groups other than at RDAs
5. Michelle will send a doodle poll to set up a monthly meeting - _**DONE**_

## Brainstorming exercise

Let’s go to [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14f0hXT6EQbw6XR8Kx3K-F-pAMDHXFxtKlDdJ8JKzhZ4/edit). We will spend 15 minutes brainstorming in two exercises.

## Notes
1. Update on
  - [RDA case statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i2n99MPp02icMBIeaalRGMRKqawl09LQGJcCvTmVeRI/edit?ts=5e9689af#)
  - [tweet for community review](https://twitter.com/orchid00/status/1259763913521901569?s=20)
  - [Published Case Statement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg/case-statement/fair-research-software-wg-case-statement)

    - Paula sent case statement to liaison, now uploaded
    - Now we are officially in "community review stage"
    - statement will be open for community review for a month, we need to keep an eye out for comments
    - Next step, case statement to be sent by RDA liaison to TAB who will review it
    - Now about 50 members in group
    - **ACTION Morane** to potentially encourage people from FAIRsFAIR to give feedback
    - **ACTION Jen** to ask for someone from FAIRplus to give feedback
    - **ACTION Neil** to contact SPN to see if they want to be involved
    - **ACTION Neil** to ask some people from EOSC FAIR WG to provide feedback
    - **ACTION Paula** to send the CS to other RDA groups via posts

2. Beginning the work plan
  - Milestone 1:
    - Identify issues in definition of FAIR for research software, based on analysis of existing definitions and frameworks. Include definition of research software to delineate the scope that FAIR will be applied to. The draft would identify commonalities and differences, and thus key questions for the community to engage around. Initiate consultation with community (including identification of who is in this community)
  - Suggested subgroups to address milestone 1:
    1. Review of the original FAIR in context of research software.

      **_Output_**: list of what part of FAIR applies as is to research software, what doesn't apply at all, what applies with a different definition or different details
      - Involved: **Dan**

    2. Review of the Towards FAIR principles for research software paper.

      **_Output_**: does it make sense, identify what needs discussion (people who write this paper can’t be in this group)
      - Involved: **Michelle**, Morane

    3. Define research software.

      **_Output_**: concise definition
      - Involved: **Morane**, Fotis, Paula, Neil, Mateusz, Dan

    4. Review new papers (and workshops or workshop reports) around FAIR software that have come out since the release of the paper (material listed in slides for BOF at RDA P15)

      **_Output_**: What new lessons have been learnt from these papers and workshops? Has anything changed in the interim?
      - Involved: **Neil**, Michelle, Jen, Leyla
      - Suggested Zotero Tag: Recent Work
      - Relevant publications to be considered:
          - [From FAIR research data toward FAIR and open research software](https://doi.org/10.1515/itit-2019-0040)
          - [The FAIR Principles: First Generation Implementation Choices and Challenges](https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/full/10.1162/dint_e_00023), [Data Intelligence](https://data-intelligence-journal.org) special issue
      - **ACTION Paula**: Create a zotero collection for documents for this group

    5. Examine FAIR work in other contexts eg FAIR workflows by Carole Goble et al., FAIR for notebooks, FAIR for research objects.

      - Involved: **Mateusz**, Jen, Paula, Fotis, Leyla

    6. Document potential gaps in FAIR at a high level (additions to F, A, I, R)
      - This group could do its work after other groups (possibly start around Sep 2020 - or as soon as we have an output from tasks 1-5)
      - "Open, FAIR, and citable" - discussed in FORCE11 Scholarly Commons activity
      - Software quality?

    - How to form groups?
      - Find a leader/coordinator for each - see people in **bold** above
      - Define subgroups in writing (**by 11 June**, but need to have draft, then internal feedback at least once)
      - Email all full group members and let them join which they want (**after 11 June**)
      - Then subgroups start in late June
      - Aim to provide some initial material for next RDA meeting


3. Engagement with other RDA groups we highlighted in the case statement
  - Neil heard back from the other Software Source Code IG chairs, but without substantial additional comments
  - **ACTION Paula** to send case statement to other RDA groups, as well as specifically to the chairs of those groups

4. Updating the community ([50 group members](https://www.rd-alliance.org/node/69317/members))
  - Case Statement Submission
  - Milestone 1 in progress
  - **ACTION Paula**: to email our WG members

5. Committee structure - rolling chair for monthly meetings? (Order would be: Michelle Barker, Neil Chue Hong, Leyla Garcia, Morane Gruenpeter, Jen Harrow, Dan Katz, Mateusz Kuzak, Paula Andrea Martinez, Fotis Psomopoulos)
  - Chair will prepare agenda
  - **ACTION Fotis** will move notes from google docs where we take them, to [FAIR4RS GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS) after the meeting.

6. Any other business
  - **ACTION Dan** to send RDA case statement to FORCE11 for approval when we have RDA comments back
  - [Google Drive for milestones](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ZsRDYvbeXfgkp3t7qTpYcUzQsSYA2xDF)
 - [Brainstorming - discuss this for next call](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14f0hXT6EQbw6XR8Kx3K-F-pAMDHXFxtKlDdJ8JKzhZ4/edit)


## Next Meeting

**Next meeting** Monday, June 8th 20:00 UTC


## List of actions

_(as copied from the minutes above)_

1. **ACTION Morane** to potentially encourage people from FAIRsFAIR to give feedback
2. **ACTION Jen** to ask for someone from FAIRplus to give feedback
3. **ACTION Neil** to contact SPN to see if they want to be involved
4. **ACTION Neil** to ask some people from EOSC FAIR WG to provide feedback
5. **ACTION Paula** to send the CS to other RDA groups via posts
6. **ACTION Paula**: Create a zotero collection for documents for this group and invite all - **_DONE_**
7. **ACTION All Task Leads**: Define subgroups in writing (**by 11 June**, but need to have draft, then internal feedback at least once)
8. **ACTION Paula** to send case statement to other RDA groups, as well as specifically to the chairs of those groups
9. **ACTION Paula**: to email our WG members about the Case Statement Submission and the Milestone 1 in progress
10. **ACTION Fotis** will move notes from google docs where we take them, to [FAIR4RS GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS) after the meeting - **_DONE_**
11. **ACTION Dan** to send RDA case statement to FORCE11 for approval when we have RDA comments back
