# 13/14 July 2020 FAIR4S Call

_[Your time conversion](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=FAIR4RS&iso=20200714T06&p1=47&ah=1)_


- **Chair**: Leyla Garcia
- **Notes**: Neil Chue Hong
- **Attendees**: Mateusz Kuzak, Morane Gruenpeter, Neil Chue Hong, Fotis Psomopoulos, Leyla Garcia, Jen Harrow, Michelle Barker, Paula Andrea Martinez, Dan Katz
- **Apologies**: -

_Chairing rota_: Neil Chue Hong (June), Leyla Garcia (July), Jen Harrow (August - swapped with Morane),  Morane Gruenpeter (September), Dan Katz (October), Mateusz Kuzak (November), Paula Andrea Martinez (December), Fotis Psomopoulos (January 2021), Michelle Barker (February 2021)

_**Previous chair takes notes at next meeting**_


## Agenda

1. (_10'_) Review of [actions from previous meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fbk9U36zXXGEysVSxE3Wl2RIXx14aGPH4fhcILy8zG8/edit#heading=h.i5dg32217fm3)
2. Items for [this meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fbk9U36zXXGEysVSxE3Wl2RIXx14aGPH4fhcILy8zG8/edit#heading=h.bvw5a8q2zfi9)
  1. (_5'_) DK - Report on [webinar 1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l57tItyLUqNlo3GV2yz7UYc5PypZ-H_Lu0WiwFMt4v4/edit#) (by corresponding chair)
  2. (_5'_) FP - Report on [webinar 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l57tItyLUqNlo3GV2yz7UYc5PypZ-H_Lu0WiwFMt4v4/edit#) (by corresponding chair)
  3. (_2'_) Check with subgroup leads about contacting participants and initiating work
  4. (_15'_) PAM - Report on Case Statement FAIR4RS, and how to address [comments](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/rda-technical-advisory-board-tab/wiki/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg-tab-review) to be worked on this [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-ck2Zylu1UVHFC2brJFu841Mp8Z8inL6TcfZ4Twdbtk/edit) (Located FAIR 4 Research Software > Group Proposals > Case Statement)
  5. (_5'_) - LJ - Report on community engagement (by those proposing events to reach out)
    - Activities proposed by Michelle
      - [International FAIR convergence symposium](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_eiQy9HXlhceRdHwuIYPp0Uskjq_KqxsWEW9Amx6iVU/edit#)
    - Activities proposed by Mateusz
      - SORSE, Michelle wrote up a [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j5H-DckZ19Bvcm3gyuLN747jOJ1TrehEV3Yf3hHIQCc/edit)
    - Any other venue?
  6. (_15'_) - MB - Call for next plenary meeting
  7. (_5'_) - NCH - Highlight EOSC FAIR Practice report section on software and request for feedback
  8. (_10'_) - Any other business
    - PAM - How to engage with other RDA/FORCE11 groups?
      - Have a look at [WorkWithOtherGroups folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1PKs4lMgki_HzyHmyhO36EvqzNVkC-IGM)
	       - **ACTION Paula**: send doodle poll and schedule meeting with [CURE-FAIR about their CS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/cure-fair-wg/case-statement/cure-fair-wg-case-statement)
	       - **ACTION all**: SSCI output comments, [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P9555nvjrM99jj-WlsKO0Sh-c2Is5mNl9bTj8SZgy_I/edit) before 17 August


## Action items

_from [previous meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11bdgEPPt5Jx8b7qdW0l86eqC9NTmGbvyuJYlvvJ9RKw/)_

1. Commenting on the CURE-FAIR statement
  - setup [google doc for our comments](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mkgUmOIBwO49nGdnMsXZ6RC9RIb3CuimHdNiJOFZrdU/edit) - Paula to coordinate and submit _**DONE**_
  - **Comments have been accepted and need further discussion, please see case statement. I will coordinate a meeting with the chairs of CURE-FAIR for alignment. Please comment how and when we shall prepare.**
2. Webinars presenting group and inviting to join task forces:
  - Paula to find times for the two webinars, in 2-3 weeks  _**DONE**_
  - Michelle to coordinate communications to WG re webinars and agendas  _**DONE**_
  - All of the chairs to write expectations of members to commit to the group and everyone to review the output of each subgroup. Add your name when you read it and approve it.  _**DONE**_
  - Need discussion on infrastructure to support subgroups, will now do by email - Michelle to start by asking RDA, then email everyone  _**DONE**_
    - Email lists - nothing formal that can be offered to subgroups via RDA
    - Each group should set up their own lists
    - RDA can provide webinar infrastructure
    - We could use the main WG mailing list and differentiate in the subject line e.g. [FAIR4RS-subgroup3]. Advantage of this is that the archive is available for people to see who come late.
    - We agreed that we should have individual mailing lists, so that it can be archived
    - **ACTION Mateusz**: to see if the mailman infrastructure they run would be possible
    - **ACTION Neil**: will see if the researchcomputing.org.uk hosted mailing lists he runs would be suitable
3. Results of [brainstorming exercise](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14f0hXT6EQbw6XR8Kx3K-F-pAMDHXFxtKlDdJ8JKzhZ4/edit): Paula to email a summary to the Steering Committee  _**DONE**_
  - summary added at the end of the document.
4. Updating the community
  - **Paula** to find out with RDA who received the CS post.  _**DONE**_
  - **Michelle** to take the lead in the community update invite people to participate from subtasks  _**DONE**_
  - **Jen**, [FAIRplus](https://fairplus-project.eu/) WP Leads contacted and webinar/WG info distributed. Serena recommended contacting Susanna-Assunta Sansone, what do you think?
    - NCH: Are we looking for endorsement or more partnership
    - JH: Engage FAIRplus in activities, and get feedback on the work we’re doing?
    - LG: FAIRplus have the FAIR Cookbook - should this be something that we are trying to copy or contribute to?
    - - **ACTION Jen**: Resolved for Jen to contact FAIRPlus (through Serena initially, or through Susanna if that is the suggestion), invite someone from them to get involved with groups, and discuss if there is potential collaboration on FAIR cookbooks.  
5. Meeting Procedures: **Neil** continue to discuss by email and make a decision
6. Fotis to add minutes to [GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS)  _**ONGOING**_


## Notes


Items for this meeting

1. (_5'_) DK - Report on webinar 1 (by corresponding chair)
  - There were X people attending
  - People seemed interested
  - [Notes (from both webinars)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l57tItyLUqNlo3GV2yz7UYc5PypZ-H_Lu0WiwFMt4v4/edit#heading=h.fdtwyb1y8w8b)
2. (_5'_) FP - Report on webinar 2 (by corresponding chair)
  - There were about 30 people attending
  - Icebreaker was good to get an idea of why people were interested
  - [Notes (from both webinars)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l57tItyLUqNlo3GV2yz7UYc5PypZ-H_Lu0WiwFMt4v4/edit#heading=h.fdtwyb1y8w8b)
  - Question around when we start work, given that people were moving towards holiday season. But we appreciate this and will try and work as asynchronous as possible
  - 54 people registered to subgroups to date
3. (_2'_) Check with subgroup leads about contacting participants and initiating work
  - Group 1 - Dan sent an email to group members today (13 July) and started
  - Group 3 - Morane has sent an email to group members today (13 July) and invited people to introduce themselves on Gitter chat
https://gitter.im/FAIR4RS/community
  - gitter chat for the WG can have host subgroups: https://gitter.im/FAIR4RS/subgroup3-RS-definition
4. (_15'_) PAM - Report on Case Statement FAIR4RS, and how to address [comments](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/rda-technical-advisory-board-tab/wiki/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg-tab-review) to be worked on this [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-ck2Zylu1UVHFC2brJFu841Mp8Z8inL6TcfZ4Twdbtk/edit) (Located FAIR 4 Research Software > Group Proposals > Case Statement)
  - Minor comments are already suggestions, please vote +1 or rephrase.
  - Major comment to be discussed is around timeline and use cases
    - Subgroup 1 could come up with use cases based on their rereading of the FAIR principles for data
    - Subgroup 2 could identify use cases coming from other research objects that might apply to software
    - Subgroup 4 could identify use cases that have been written about already
    - We might also have use cases from other groups we are involved in, e.g. [SCID (p.13)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MpWGgxet1A0qFhPFJoIs0363wXOUKgzwQIinKc8QqWI/edit#heading=h.4lorxpxcdqiz) or [Software Citation use cases](https://peerj.com/articles/cs-86/#table-2)
    - Suggest that we make it clear in Milestone 1 that we are identifying and collecting use cases as part of this work.
      - How should we collect use cases?
      - Start with short one-sentence statements summarising use case and actors
      - Aim for format used in  
    - Suggest that we revise Milestone 3 from ["**identifying use cases**"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fABnzXmIR_iVMAz3V93zuhE5Z9MX0OcLzTPbjdxfdqc/edit) to "**publishing supporting use cases**" or similar.
      - **ACTION all**: every subgroup to start collecting short use case examples.
    - Noted that there was some concern that adding the task of identifying use cases to the work of the subgroups might not fit in the time we’d allocated initially.
  - NCH to suggest text for how to engage other RDA groups
  - Our deadline for feedback to Paula by email or on the document: 20 July 2020
  - Our deadline for submitting back to TAB: 27 July 2020
  - **ACTION Paula**: re submit Case statement before end of the month
  - **ACTION Paula**: schedule a meeting with CURE-FAIR chairs
5. (_5'_) LJ - Report on community engagement (by those proposing events to reach out)
  - Activities proposed by Michelle
  - Activities proposed by Mateusz
    - [SORSE](https://sorse.github.io/), Michelle wrote up a [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j5H-DckZ19Bvcm3gyuLN747jOJ1TrehEV3Yf3hHIQCc/edit)
  - Virtual Plenary 16 by Paula
6. (_15'_) MB - Call for next plenary meeting
7. (_5'_) NCH - Highlight EOSC FAIR Practice report section on software and request for feedback
The blog post describing how to do this will be up shortly - the document for comment is [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VKbI29Dc5jHhkVGZkUTD-L8lUeqJllvsSJiNeurjc6k/edit)
8. (_10'_) - Any other business
  - PAM - How to engage with other RDA/FORCE11 groups?
    - Have a look at [WorkWithOtherGroups folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1PKs4lMgki_HzyHmyhO36EvqzNVkC-IGM)
       - **ACTION Paula**: send doodle poll and schedule meeting with [CURE-FAIR about their CS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/cure-fair-wg/case-statement/cure-fair-wg-case-statement)
       - **ACTION all**: SSCI output comments, [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P9555nvjrM99jj-WlsKO0Sh-c2Is5mNl9bTj8SZgy_I/edit) before 17 August

## Next Meeting

**Next meeting** Monday, August 10th 20:00 UTC (_**chair**_ Jen Harrow)


## List of actions

_(as copied from the minutes above)_

1. **ACTION Jen**: contact FAIRPlus (through Serena initially, or through Susanna if that is the suggestion), invite someone from them to get involved with groups, and discuss if there is potential collaboration on FAIR cookbooks.
2. **ACTION all**: every subgroup to start collecting short use case examples.
3. **ACTION Paula**: re submit Case statement before end of the month
4. **ACTION Paula**: schedule a meeting with CURE-FAIR chairs
5. **ACTION Paula**: send doodle poll and schedule meeting with [CURE-FAIR about their CS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/cure-fair-wg/case-statement/cure-fair-wg-case-statement)
6. **ACTION all**: SSCI output comments, [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P9555nvjrM99jj-WlsKO0Sh-c2Is5mNl9bTj8SZgy_I/edit) before 17 August
7. **ACTION Fotis**: add minutes to [GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS)
