# 8/9 June 2020 FAIR4S Call

_[Your time conversion](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=CaseStatementFAIR4RS&iso=20200609T06&p1=47&ah=1)_


- **Chair**: Neil Chue Hong
- **Notes**: Michelle Barker
- **Attendees**: Mateusz Kuzak, Morane Gruenpeter, Neil Chue Hong, Fotis Psomopoulos, Leyla Garcia, Michelle Barker, Paula Andrea Martinez, Dan Katz
- **Apologies**: Jen Harrow

_Chairing rota_: Neil Chue Hong (June), Leyla Garcia (July), Jen Harrow (August - swapped with Morane),  Morane Gruenpeter (September), Dan Katz (October), Mateusz Kuzak (November), Paula Andrea Martinez (December), Fotis Psomopoulos (January 2021), Michelle Barker (February 2021)

_**Previous chair takes notes at next meeting**_


## Agenda

1. Review of actions from previous meetings
2. Update on RDA case statement review - [Published Case Statement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg/case-statement/fair-research-software-wg-case-statement) (deadline 11 June)
  - Neil can’t see any comments so far, is he doing something wrong?
  - Dan added 2 (sorry) test comments
3. Commenting on [CURE-FAIR WG case statement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/node/66744/case-statement) (deadline 15 June)
  - Includes curation of FAIR software, so we should establish how groups will interoperate
4. Progress on Milestone 1 of workplan
  - Review [subgroup definitions](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1xkUWbHvHd-zWoVk3MX54qOUybmf9FH4U)
  - Agree process and timeline for publicising subgroups 1-5
  - Check Zotero access and process
5. Review of brainstorming exercise
  - [Document containing our responses](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14f0hXT6EQbw6XR8Kx3K-F-pAMDHXFxtKlDdJ8JKzhZ4/edit)
6. Engagement with other RDA groups we highlighted in the case statement
  - Update on responses from other groups
7. Planning future community engagement
  - Session submissions for [CODATA International FAIR Convergence Symposium](https://conference.codata.org/FAIRconvergence2020/) (22-23 October in Paris) due 20 July
8. Updating the community
  - Case Statement Approved / Revised
  - Milestone 1 Subgroups starting and how to get involved
9. Meeting Procedures
  - **Proposal**: open monthly meetings to the community from the July meeting, starting by advertising to the mailing list.
    - This requires an agenda that balances updating people and soliciting input in a structured way, so that there is a benefit to them attending, with progressing the administrative work necessary for the group.
    - We could also choose to have the initial or latter part of the meeting be a steering committee only, but that would depend on whether we thought there was much “private” business after the group was officially set up.
10. Any other business
  - [RDA FAIR Digital Objects](http://docs.google.com/document/d/1CzqIPPJcnqY4ZNIE1Pkloqe-ESGnuTB5lBY8plYCvtU/edit) - do we need to coordinate with them at this point?
  - [FAIR Badging Sprint badges](https://sprint.elifesciences.org/a-badge-for-fair-software/) for compliance with [fair-software.eu](https://fair-software.eu/)




1259763913521901569

## Action items

_from [previous meeting](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1udE19l-D3PRUyp9pWkpXEqbZ8lkeyf1q)_

1. Morane to potentially encourage people from FAIRsFAIR to give feedback.  _**DONE**_
2. Jen to ask for someone from FAIRplus to give feedback: Serena is contacting WPL group to find appropriate volunteer to feedback for the next call. _**ONGOING**_
3. Neil to contact SPN ([Software Preservation Network](https://educopia.org/spn/)) to see if they want to be involved _**DONE**_
  - They are interested in a more formal engagement around recommendations for the software preservation community, follow-up call June 9 to discuss scope of potential activities
4. Neil to ask some people from EOSC FAIR WG to provide feedback. _**ONGOING**_
  - circulated but will nudge again
5. Paula to send the CS to other RDA groups via posts _**DONE**_
6. Paula to create a [zotero collection](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2501020/fair4rs/library) for documents for this group, add steering committee as members/contributors _**DONE**_
7. Paula to send case statement to other RDA groups, as well as specifically to the chairs of those groups _**DONE**_
8. Paula to email our WG members to update them _**DONE**_
9. Fotis will move notes from google docs where we take them, to [GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS) after the meeting _**DONE**_
10. Dan to send RDA case statement to FORCE11 for approval when we have RDA comments back _**ONGOING**_
  - awaiting end of comment period


## Notes

1. Review of actions from previous meetings
  - Mostly done!
  - Neil will have a meeting tomorrow with the Software Preservation Network, to interact with this group.
2. Update on RDA case statement review
  - Two comments from the community. Deadline June 11
  - Then it goes to the TAB
3. Commenting on [CURE-FAIR WG case statement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/node/66744/case-statement)
  - We should comment, address where complimentary and where differ esp re curation
  - June 15 is deadline
  - **ACTION Paula**: setup google doc for our comments - Paula to coordinate and submit
4. [Progress on Milestone 1 of workplan](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1xkUWbHvHd-zWoVk3MX54qOUybmf9FH4U)
  - How do we invite people to contribute. Do we need to make the subgroups statements clearer?
  - There is a gap between Subgroup 2 (Towards FAIR for Research Software) (critic the paper) and Subgroup 4 (identifying indexing material, literature review to create an evidence space). Move aim 5 from subgroup 4 to subgroup 2: Determine whether new insight needs to be included in the definition and application of FAIR principles for research software. Remove restriction on who can join subgroup 2.
  - Define progress, timelines, how do we advertise: invite all WG members to contribute. Run the same webinar twice to reach multiple timezones to explain subgroup aims to community and encourage their involvement. Leader of each subgroup then has responsibility to coordinate meetings of their subgroup (time can be chosen in advance and told to subgroup, or can be decided after see member locations).
  - **ACTION Paula**: to find times for the two webinars, in 2-3 weeks
  - **ACTION Michelle**: to coordinate communications to WG re webinars and agendas
  - **ACTION all chairs**: all of the chairs to write expectations of members to commit to the group and everyone to review the output of each subgroup. Add your name when you read it and approve it.
  - **ACTION Michelle**: need discussion on infrastructure to support subgroups, will now do by email - Michelle to start by asking RDA, then email everyone
5. Review of [brainstorming exercise](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14f0hXT6EQbw6XR8Kx3K-F-pAMDHXFxtKlDdJ8JKzhZ4/edit)
  - **ACTION Paula**: to email a summary to the Steering Committee
6. Engagement with other RDA groups we highlighted in the case statement.
  - **ACTION all**: Talk by email and then revisit at next monthly meeting (CODATA event due July 20th)
7. Planning future community engagement
  - Michelle put together [a spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hXWrmoK8NP8hGn13pYSIuCm0jJiiVms0ZFAzFOmsKVg/edit#) of possible options
8. Updating the community.
  - **ACTION Paula**: Paula to find out with RDA who received the CS post.
  - **ACTION Michelle**: to take the lead in the community update invite people to participate from subtasks
9. Meeting Procedures
  - **ACTION Neil**: continue to discuss by email and make a decision
10. Any other business



## Next Meeting

**Next meeting** Monday, July 13th 20:00 UTC


## List of actions

_(as copied from the minutes above)_

1. **ACTION Paula**: setup google doc for our comments - coordinate and submit
2. **ACTION Paula**: to find times for the two webinars, in 2-3 weeks
3. **ACTION Michelle**: to coordinate communications to WG re webinars and agendas
4. **ACTION all chairs**: all of the chairs to write expectations of members to commit to the group and everyone to review the output of each subgroup. Add your name when you read it and approve it.
5. **ACTION Michelle**: need discussion on infrastructure to support subgroups, will now do by email - Michelle to start by asking RDA, then email everyone
6. **ACTION Paula**: to email a summary to the Steering Committee
7. **ACTION all**: Talk by email and then revisit at next monthly meeting (CODATA event due July 20th)
8. **ACTION Paula**: Paula to find out with RDA who received the CS post.
9. **ACTION Michelle**: to take the lead in the community update invite people to participate from subtasks
10. **ACTION Neil**: continue to discuss by email and make a decision
