# 10/11 August 2020 FAIR4S Call

_[Your time conversion](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=FAIR4RS&iso=20200811T06&p1=47&ah=1)_


- **Chair**: Jen Harrow
- **Notes**: Leyla Garcia
- **Attendees**: Jen Harrow, Paula Andrea Martinez, Michelle Barker, Leyla Garcia, Dan Katz, Carole Goble, Neil Chue Hong, Fotis Psomopoulos
- **Apologies**: Mateusz Kuzak, Morane Gruenpeter

_Chairing rota_: Neil Chue Hong (June), Leyla Garcia (July), Jen Harrow (August - swapped with Morane),  Morane Gruenpeter (September), Dan Katz (October), Mateusz Kuzak (November), Paula Andrea Martinez (December), Fotis Psomopoulos (January 2021), Michelle Barker (February 2021)

_**Previous chair takes notes at next meeting**_


## Agenda


1. Review of [actions from previous meeting](#action-items)
2. Update on [community engagement](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS/blob/master/CommunityEngagement.md) (by those proposing events to reach out)
3. Update from subgroup leads, mailing list set up by Neil
4. New references in zotero, how to do this as you only need to be a member of the group.
5. AOB


## Action items

_from [previous meeting](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-07-13-Minutes.md)_


1. Contact with [FAIRplus](https://fairplus-project.eu/) (**Jen**): Resolved for Jen to contact FAIRPlus (through Serena initially, or through Susanna if that is the suggestion), invite someone from them to get involved with groups, and discuss if there is potential collaboration on FAIR cookbooks.
  - Contacted Carole/Sussana as was involved with the previous webinars and is involved in FAIR cookbook if they would like to attend next meeting (Sept) to discuss potential collaboration
    - Carole joined the start of today's meeting
  - Interaction with FAIRplus and particularly FAIRCookBook
  - _Carole_: FAIRCookBook is a recipe particularly for pharma data to turn them FAIR, primary task is around FAIR data
  - _Jen_: About how we can collaborate in the future
  - _Carole_: [FAIRCookBook](https://fairplus.github.io/the-fair-cookbook/intro.html) framework, infrastructure used, follows the [Turing way](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/welcome) using [Jupyter Book](https://jupyterbook.org/intro.html) for documenting recipes, FAIRness of services (identifying what services can help to make data FAIR). There is no capacity to extend to software, it could be premature to suggest extending into software.
  - _Jen_: Would ELIXIR-Converge (Research Data Management Tool Kit) be a better option
  - _Carole_: Makes more sense, more oriented to software, a part led by Carole Goble and Frederik Coppens, makes more sense than FAIRplus
  - _Leyla_: we still can copy the CookBook way
  - _Carole_: CookBook is heavily relying on GitHub (PR, issues and so), some issues around markdown and so could be easier for FAIR4RS, be careful of not over engineering, keep it simple, CookBooks got complicated at some point, keep it simple, bear in mind who you are trying to target
  - _Jen_: Still in contact with Philip R, waiting for his feedback about CookBooks. We can see how Converge moves
  - _Michelle_: We can see how things move when we have the principles, later will be easier later

2. Meeting Procedures: **Neil** continue to discuss by email and make a decision
  - **Neil**: Whether or not turning these meetings open, we can open them but people need to know what it is for (Carole did not know).
    - **ACTION Neil**: It can be put for voting via email
  - **Fotis** to add minutes to [GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS) _**DONE**_

3. **Paula**: updates on [CURE-FAIR meeting July 28](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/cure-fair-wg/case-statement/cure-fair-wg-case-statement)
  - Poll sent, met on the 28th of July, 3 from CURE, 2 from here. Comments from us were good and appreciated, already approved, and activities to start during plenary 16, happy to be contacted, Mateusz’s group was suggested. Happy to share draft with us. They will follow up the sub-groups way.
  - Two things mentioned: meetings of steering committee and link to public minutes, and talk about engagement activities, it is good idea for everybody to know, post sent by Paula

4. Everyone SSCI output comments, [Gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P9555nvjrM99jj-WlsKO0Sh-c2Is5mNl9bTj8SZgy_I/edit) before 17 August
  - Reminder on some links to read and provide comments there, maybe as a group or individually. Dan and Neil are authors, Leyla also contributed there.
  - **ACTION all**: Individuals from this group not associated with drafting the document please comment if you have time

5. Update from Paula around [Case Statement resubmission - FAIR4RS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg/case-statement/fair-research-software-wg-case-statement). Sent on the 31st of July
  - Sent on 31st of July with summary of changes, both versions available, reception was acknowledged. No date for news

6. Paula sent [Working group proposal for VP16](https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries/rda-16th-plenary-meeting-costa-rica-virtual/progress-fair-4-research-software-wg) on August 4
  - Sent, under review until the 26th of September, we still can make changes to be sent before the end of August

7. Paula update on [community engagement](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/working-and-interest-group-chairs-software-source-code-ig-rdaforce11-software-source-code/post)
  - we also have now two lists one internal on the drive and one [external on Github](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS/blob/master/CommunityEngagement.md).




## Notes

Items for this meeting

1. Review of [actions from previous meeting](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-07-13-Minutes.md)

2. Update on [community engagement](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS/blob/master/CommunityEngagement.md) (by those proposing events to reach out)
  - Mateusz will give a short talk at Workshop on [FAIR Computational Workflows](https://eccb2020.info/programme-at-a-glance/) - ECCB 2020 ELIXIR track
    - Short talk 5-min, confirmed, good on engagement, part of the ELIXIR track
  - Feedback from [FSCI lightning talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1w50DU2KuNznCwlczbyfCLTNhvEs6Cy98DOjvLMAQGZ8) (Leyla)
    - No questions but later session, some people expressed interest
    - Mid-term plenary: 5 sessions, discussion about how difficult is implementing FAIR
  - A few updates on VP16 proposals (Michelle, Paula)
    - Two proposals: group meeting (update from sub-groups) and BoF
      - FAIR4RS working group update on work done, mainly on the subgroup activities and outcomes.
      - A BoF coordinated with the larger community, to define the roadmap for Research Software, will discuss the topic and a longer time line than the activities of this group.
        - _Fotis_: BoF plan, it is a separated thing than could be complementary to the group
    - Happening at the same time as BioHackathon Europe (Jen, Mateusz, Fotis and Leyla attending there)
    - Regarding RDA P16 timeslots (and their overlap to the ELIXIR BioHackathon), these are the [options](https://www.rd-alliance.org/node/69900):
      - Breakout #1 Monday Nov 9th  [5pm-6:30pm UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+1&iso=20201109T11&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #2 Monday Nov 9th  [12am-1:30am UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+2&iso=20201109T18&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #3 Tuesday Nov 10th  [5pm-6:30pm UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+3&iso=20201110T11&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #4 Tuesday Nov 10th  [12am-1:30am UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+4&iso=20201110T18&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #5 Wednesday Nov 11th  [5pm-6:30pm UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+5&iso=20201111T11&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #6 Wednesday  Nov 11th  [12am-1:30am UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+6&iso=20201111T18&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #7 Thursday Nov 12th  [5pm-6:30pm UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+7&iso=20201112T11&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
      - Breakout #8 Thursday Nov 12th  [9pm-10:30pm UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=RDA+Virtual+Plenary+16+-+Breakout+8&iso=20201112T15&p1=225&ah=1&am=30)
  - Dan gave a talk at [US-RSE workshop at PEARC20](https://us-rse.org/events/2020/2020-07-pearc20), 20-25 people, some questions and discussion
  - Proposal to [ADSA 2020 annual meeting](https://academicdatascience.org/adsa-meetings/annual-meeting) will also lead to a talk


3. Update from subgroup leads, mailing list set up by Neil

  - Subgroup 1: Dan
    - Using [gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vexHkz39aCNt9X5iFqe_ENesS844KmBYpkVgnq1IMJE/edit#)
    - Making progress on 19 principles and applicable to software
    - Interop principles causing most questions and also whether metadata applicable to software
    - Set up gitter group
    - Making progress, survey asking about the principles, applicable as written, need changes, not at all. Interoperable with  more issues. More discussion about (meta)data, here metadata(software). Work in progress.
  - Subgroup 2: Mateusz ( [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19bPzMNv8UDXJftFadg_1BEucBhZKsZHoOxeT-3sudlM/edit) )
    - 12 people joined the gitter channel
    - Leyla and Michel not aware of much recent work there
    - Not much in the gitter,
    - **ACTION Michelle**: to follow up about progress and offer help

  - Subgroup 3: Morane (away)
    -  Introductions on gitter chat _**DONE**_
    -  Defining sub-goup’s SMART goal (in gitter)
    -  Collecting references (and quotes) - in [GDoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PvYiYJxd7-vrmTusTvS8fYp47Wu6v-c_XMu-LjIBKio/edit#)
    -  _Paula_: She left plan on the gitter, definitions, goals, once ready will be shared, a lot of resources collected, work in progress

  - Subgroup 4: Neil
    - 9 people joined Gitter so far - not yet done introductions
    - Creating a set of asynchronous actions for August as people are mostly away
    - Starting by collecting references via Google Docs and email
    - _Neil_: not moved forward as fast as initially expected, initial email promising more instructions, first thing is collect a set of references that we are going to analyze later on. Activity on reading the "Toward FAIR 4 Software principles" coordinated with Michelle, it can be discussed separately

  - Zotero group, some requests to be added to the group. No issue about others adding references there (as far as they are members). We need instructions about metadata, at least using tags per subgroup. Cross-check with spreadsheet of subgroup members.
    - _Neil_: we can agree on some text related to the metadata. We can tell to members directly what metadata to add
    - _Michelle_: Each group propose a tag and communicate to member
    - _Neil_: Up to subgroup leader to send instructions on how to add things
    - **ACTION Leyla**: to start a short instructions text (by now, check reference does not exist already, if yes add a new tag, otherwise add the reference and the tag)



4. Paula: request to add new references in zotero, how to do this as you only need to be a member of the group.
    - Neil suggests can give them access and instructions about metadata you want them to add.
    - Tell each subgroup member to add metadata tag around which subgroup they of interest for
  - Leyla will make a google doc with instructions
    - Paula receives requests for access to the group so how can she check if they should join, maybe cross check with names of the group
  - Zotero tags: maybe create tags based on what has happened in covid
    - Subgroup1: Fresh look
    - Subgroup2: Other RO
    - Subgroup3: Definition
    - Subgroup4: Recent Work


5. AOB


## Next Meeting

**Next meeting** Monday, September 7th 20:00 UTC (_**chair**_ Morane Gruenpeter)


## List of actions

_(as copied from the minutes above)_

1. **ACTION Neil**: It can be put for voting via email. Open meetings.
2. **ACTION all**: Individuals from this group not associated with drafting the document please comment if you have time.
3. **ACTION Michelle**: to follow up about progress and offer help in Subgroup 1.
4. **ACTION Leyla**: to start a short instructions text (by now, check reference does not exist already, if yes add a new tag, otherwise add the reference and the tag).
5. **ACTION Fotis**: add minutes to [GitHub repo](https://github.com/force11/FAIR4RS)
